# AsCRISPR (Allele-specific CRISPR) 
AsCRISPR (Allele-specific CRISPR) is a web tool for designing guide sequences for allele-specific CRISPR genome engineering. It is developed to aid the design of guide sequences during the allele-specific gene engineering of dominant inherited diseases, and can be further exploited in many other versatile applications, such as treating genome imprinting and haploinsufficiency, spatiotemporal loci imaging and immunocompatible manipulations. For dominantly inherited diseases, patients inherit one pathogenic allele causing a disease phenotype, especially in a dominant-negative manner, and one normal allele as well. Treatment strategies typically involve silencing the mutated allele, whereas expression of the wild-type (WT) allele remains unaffected and is sufficient for normal functions to prevent the onset of the disease. Allele-speciﬁc genome editing by CRISPR is a promising means to treat those diseases by selectively targeting the mutated genes or disease-causing single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). Notably, in the era of personalized medicine, naturally occurring SNPs that alter the protospacer adjacent motifs (PAMs) or spacer sequences recognized by CRISPR nucleases would also provide a point of entry for patient-specific gene therapy.

Basically, mutations/SNPs-derived novel PAMs can confer stringent allele-specific targeting, and also guide sequences with mutations/SNPs located especially within their seed sequence can also distinguish between two alleles. AsCRISPR can process with either user-identified sequences harboring single-base mutations and short insertion-deletion mutations (indels), or heterozygous SNPs deposited in the dbSNP database. Multiple CRISPR nucleases including SpCas9, SaCas9, Cpf1, Cas12b, CasX and their engineered variants are included for users’ choice. AsCRISPR can then return the candidate guide sequences that may selectively target one of the alleles, and further evaluate their on-target efficiencies, specificity efficiencies and potential off-targets throughout the genome, and it can also display the restriction enzyme sites that might be disrupted after gene targeting, which is of great use for clonal screening.

Moreover, AsCRISPR analyzed with dominant SNP sites retrieved from ClinVar and OMIM and provided a Dominant Database of candidate targetable sgRNAs, which may specifically target the alternative allele for each dominant SNP site. Besides, AsCRISPR also established a Validated Database that deposited all experimentally validated allele-specific sgRNAs for treating genetic diseases.

# Website
AsCRISPR is freely available at http://www.genemed.tech/ascrispr.


# Implementation
AsCRISPR was developed using PHP and Perl on a Linux platform with an Apache web server. The front and back separation model was used; the front end is based on the Vue + Element, and the back end is based on the Laravel, a PHP web framework.

Single-base mutations, short indels, and SNP IDs are the formats for input. The SNP information was downloaded from dbSNP v150 database (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/SNP) and stored in MySQL database. To optimize the SNP query performance, an index on SNP table was added. Sequence can be extracted from the .2bit file (hg19/GRCh37, hg38/GRCh38, or mm10/GRCm38) with the twoBitToFa command base on the SNP information (chromosome, start genomic position and end genomic position, reference allele and alternate allele). AsCRISPR displayed the SNP sites located at both flanking nucleotides of a query SNP ID, which was implemented using D3.

In principle, AsCRISPR proceeds to figure out if (i) query variants give rise to novel PAMs, which confers stringent allele-specific targeting, or (ii) query variants locate within the seed region of guide sequences, which may abolish the Cas cleavage (Figure 1). AsCRISPR then outputs the candidate guide sequences, after performing the stringent search and filter. For example, those guide sequences with novel PAMs generated by variants that constitute an ambiguous genetic code (such as R and Y in the CjCas9:NNNNRYAC), will be excluded.

Scripts from CRISPOR (https://github.com/maximilianh/crisporPaper) were then integrated into AsCRISPR to assess sgRNA properties and scores. AsCRISPR also searched for possible sites recognized by restriction enzymes deposited in our database. In addition, guide sequences were further analyzed and reminded as "Not recommended" if (i) the GC contents are beyond 20%~80%; or (ii) containing four or more consecutive T, which might terminate the U6 or U3 promoter-drived transcription.
